## Response

I think this week’s reading echoes what I’ve said for last week’s discussion. I think data itself is neutral but the way of using it(the behavior), and the purpose of that behavior can be a political issue.

For example, in the case of Facebook and Cambridge Analytica, the data of Facebook users are out there on the web. But what caused the outrage of people is the use of data without getting the consent of users (illegally acquisition of data) and the way the data is used to “control” the election. I’m strongly against what Cambridge Analytica and Facebook have done to user’s privacy, but I do have doubts about whether the data they collect and the algorithm they used to manipulate people’s perception successfully. It may not be the main contributor to the result, but it could be the “last straw”, meaning the tipping point for those undecided people to change their minds. Besides, this issue also suggests that evaluating the use of data by “purpose” may not be effective and accurate because Kogan(the guy who made the app to do the test and collect the data) also argued that he thought the data was collected for academic use. This means that it could difficult to prevent the abuse of data at the stage of data collection.

Scott’s book introduced a new dimension to look at the issue of data and politics. I’ve also read the chapter 2 of Scott’s book which talks about the creation of surnames. Both parts explain how the state projects of standardization and legibility help to enhance political control. The provocation for me when reading these articles is that when we often treat big data as a new phenomenon, we seem to forget that using data for political purposes is not a new thing.  What technology does it to lower the cost of collecting and handling a large scale of data. In the past, only the government has the power and resources to collect data from a large scale. But today, people can easily scrape data from the web or through APIs. From “user”’s perspective, examining the collection of data in the history also helps to explain people’s attitude toward the data collection. For example, in ancient China (Qin dynasty) the emperor conducted a nationwide official legibility project to unite the standard of many different things. Such kind of project is also often used by emperors of a new dynasty. And this cultural background might make it easier for Chinese people to accept the mass collection of data from a bigger agency.
