## Response to [Critical Questions for Big Data](https://github.com/leoneckert/critical-data-and-visualization-spring-2020/blob/master/readings/boyd_crawford_2012.pdf)

- Introduction and Chapter 2
  _Why does Bowker say "'Raw data is both and oxymoron and a bad idea'" ? (pp. 663)_
    Data is anything but “raw”. Almost every data we find is analyzed or processed in certain ways. And the pursuit or use of such kind of ‘raw’ data doesn’t mean to present certain things as it is. Instead, it could bring more confusing or even misleading information to the viewer. For example, there could outlier in a dataset that need to be discard during the data analysis. Many hidden information can not be revealed until we visualize it. We shouldn't think of data as a natural resource but as a cultural one that needs to be generated, protected, and interpreted. And moreover, think of how to better understand the data objectively.

- Section 1 (pp. 665)
  _What could be meant by the quote "'accounting tools [...] do not simply aid the measurement of economic activity, they shape the reality they measure'"?_
  Big data affects how we think about research and how we interpret it. By offering a wider scale of data, the big data brings challenges to rethink previous way of interpreting data. This argument also reminds us to be careful when using the big data as a tool. Numbers don’t speak for themselves. The big data wouldn’t be necessary neutral, and user of such data should be aware of that.

- Section 3 and 4 (pp. 668)
  _In which way is Twitter data limited?_
  The limits are in the accuracy and variety. The quantity, or the number of the data doesn’t meaning is good. There are many hidden problems under the chunk of data. Some users have multiple accounts - which means the performances of one user can be overlooked. Some users are not active (or even never tweet) on that platform, meaning their behaviors may not be included in the collected data. That being said, the Twitter data can be inaccurate and not representative. Or, in the author’s word, the very meanings of ‘user’ and ‘participation’ need to be critically examined. The big amount of data is making the situation even worse since it’s harder to examine the issues hidden in the chunky data. In terms of correlation and causality, the big data also has flaws. The data only shows the ‘result’, but the factors that contribute to it can be various from each individual. By simply putting them together and analyze the correlation could results in wrong attribution.

- Section 5 (pp. 671)
  _If you don't need to login to obtain certain data, then it is public and free to use. Or isn't it? Please share your opinion._
  I think it depends on what exactly is the data and what’s the purpose. When people provide data in a public space, I assume they are aware of some possible use of these data and giving out the right to use it, but in reality it’s far more complicated than that. The asymmetric power between the user and the researchers determines the asymmetric position of the two sides from the beginning. From the user’s side, in many occasions, people are not aware that their data are being used by other research groups. Even if there might be some rules about personal data written in the agreement, the user often don’t really have the option to say no. (For example, if you don’t agree with it you can’t proceed.)

  From the perspective of the researcher, it is agreeable that more data can help with the research. Even if they are willing to take more process of justify their purpose for using the data, defining the purpose for using data is a tricky issue. It’s difficult to have a standard that defines which purpose is good enough to obtain data. The ethical issue is often in a grey area. For example, when it comes to some data mining for business, the use of data can, on the one hand, used to provide better services, but on the other hand, it can also put the consumer to have more unnecessary consumption.
